---
layout: post
date: 2020-05-09 10:00:00 -0000
title: The Tragedy of Monopoly
categories: [Capitalism]
---
A little known fact about Monopoly is that with all of it's iterations trying to capitalize  
off of it's success, Monopoly was originally meant to criticize greed! The inventor  
Elizabeth Magie was very rebellious of the politics during the time she lived  
(she was born in 1866). Her inspiration for her game was Henry George's "Progress and Poverty",  
in which George believed that real estate was what caused the inequity between rich people and  
people in poverty. Magie wanted to prove this idea, so in 1904 she patented a game very similar  
to the Monopoly we know today. However, it was very different, with two sets of rules. One called  
"Prosperity", where all players gained some money when someone bought a property, which was meant to reflect  
how George wanted to tax land, and the other called "Monopoly", which was entirely the same as the  
rules we all know today. The game was a hit among left-wing people, and one of which named Charles Darrow  
sold a modified version to the Parker Brothers games company as if it was his own  
game. Once they realized it's origins, they bought Magie's patent and relaunched the game  
under the name "Monopoly" and only witrh 1 set of rules. To add, the Parker Brothers have marketed their game  
as if it was invented by Charles Darrow, and that he became a millionaire when he sold it to them.  
It's an interesting story that Magie's game about people hoarding wealth has become a game where  
taking everyone else's money is celebrated, but during my research I had one question:  
What was the original name of the game that Elizabeth Magie created?
